.TH LPSD 1 "2022-04-08" "pre-1.0"
.SH NAME
lpsd – log-based port scan detector

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpsd
[\fIoptions...\fR] \fB-i\fR \fIinput_file\fR
.PP
.B lpsd
-i /var/log/kern.log
.PP
.B lpsd
-i /var/log/kern.log.1,/var/log/kern.log

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Log-based port scan detector
for short
.B LPSD
is port scan detector which detects port scans by reading Syslog or standard input.
It first parses the log and then tries to find port scans from the parsed data.
LPSD works with nftables and iptables.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Show help.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--version\fR
Show version.
.TP
\fB-i\fR, \fB--input-file\fR \fIfile(s)\fR
Log file(s). Delimiter: comma (,).
.PP
.RS
Example: "syslog/kern.log" or multiple files "/var/log/kern.log.1,/var/log/kern.log".
.RE
.PP
.RS
Files \fBMUST\fR be in ascending order (from the oldest to the latest).
.RE
.PP
.RS
Note that also log entries must be in ascending order (as it is by default).
.RE
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--date\fR \fIdate\fR
Check logs from this date (format %Y-%m-%d, year is ignored).
.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fB--time-interval\fR \fItime\fR
Time interval in minutes (must be 1-60) (default 5 mins).
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--scans\fR \fIcount\fR
Count of opened connections to different ports (default 5).
.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fB--print-ports\fR
.TP
\fB-o\fR, \fB--out\fR \fIfile\fR
Output to file.
.TP
\fB-si\fR, \fB--stdin\fR
Read from standard input (and not from file).
.TP
\fB-csv\fR, \fB--csv-format\fR
Output in csv format.
.TP
\fB-th\fR, \fB--threads\fR
Thread count used to find scans (valid thread count 2-16). By default no additional threads are used. This doesn't affect parsing speed.
.TP
\fB-ro\fR, \fB--reorder\fR
Reorder records after parsing. Use this option if the files have records which are out of order.

.SH AUTHOR
Noa-Emil Nissinen

.SH BUGS
https://gitlab.com/4shadoww/lpsd
